---
title: Session Mixins
permalink: /mixins
---

# Session Mixins

> Mixins are a cool way to provide extended functionality for your session object.

A session mixin is a way to add functionality to the Conga session object.  Instead of accessing 
data variables directly, mixins provide methods that run in isolated scopes, but are attached to 
the session object.

## Configuration

You can control the mixins from your configuration.

```yaml
session:
    mixins:
        enabled: false
```
> All mixins are enabled by default.

> You can control which specific mixins are enabled.

The following example enables all mixins except the *Flash Bag*.

```yaml
session:
    mixins:
        enabled: true
        disabled:
            - flashBag
```
# Built-In Mixins

> Conga bundles register session mixins to make it easier to work with session data.

The mixins available in this bundle are listed below.

### Iterable

The `iterable` mixin provides the `get`, `set`, and other methods on your session, and implements the 
iterable interface.  

The mixin name is `iterable`, you can disable it in your configuration.

You are encouraged to use the `get` and `set` methods to access your data, as private 
keys are not allowed.  Private keys are anything that start with a '_'.  

You should also note that @conga/framework-security uses its mixin to support stateful security 
realms, which require you to use `get` and `set` to access secure data inside a security realm.

### FlashBag

The `flashBag` mixin is a nice extension that allows you to set a session message to only be 
picked up once.  After it's picked up, the message is deleted.

You can access the flash bag like this, `request.session.getFlashBag()`.

The flash bag has a `get` and a `set` method and also fully implements the iterable 
interface.

The mixin name is `flashBag`, you can disable it in your configuration.

##### Usage Example

```javascript
// my-bundle/lib/controller/DefaultController.js
 
const { Controller } = require('@conga/framework');

module.exports = class DefaultController extends Controller {
    /**
    * @Route("/", methods=["GET"]) 
    */
    index(req, res) {
        res.return({
            /* get any message from the flash bag and return it to the view
                this will also erase the existing message */  
            message: req.session.getFlashBag().get('message')
        });
    }
    
    /**
    * @Route('/action', methods=["POST"]) 
    */
    someAction(req, res) {
        
        /* ... perform some action ... */
        
        // set a flash message for the next request to pick up
        req.session.getFlashBag().set('message', 'Successfully performed action.');
        
        // redirect to the index page
        res.redirect('/');
    }
}
```

# Custom Mixins

> You can make your own mixin!

Your mixin can be anything you want, you just have to register it.  You register it by tagging 
a service definition as `session.mixin`.

##### Register The  Mixin

```
# my-bundle/lib/resources/config/services.yml
 
services:
    my.mixin:
        function: my-bundle:session/MyMixin
        tags:
            - { name: session.mixin, mixin: myMixin, priority: 10 }
```

The `mixin` option tells the system what your mixin is named, so apps can disable them.

The `priority` option tells the system in which order to process the mixin.

##### Code The Mixin

Here's a very simple example, demonstrating how to code the mixin and save custom data on it.

```
// my-bundle/lib/session/MyMixin.js
 
class MyMixin {
    constructor() {
        this.data = {};
    }
    
    set(name, value) {
        this.data[name] = value;
        return value;
    }
    
    get(name) {
        return this.data[name];
    }
}
 
module.exports = () => {
    getMyMixin() {
        if (!this.__myMixin) {
            this.__myMixin = new MyMixin();
        }
        return this.__myMixin;
    }
};
```

Use your new mixin `request.session.getMyMixin().set('foo', 'bar');`

Anything that can be JSON stringified will be persisted in the session and merged back on, on 
subsequent requests. In the case of MyMixin, the session will have data that looks like this 
`{__myMixin: {data: {foo: "bar"}}}` when it gets persisted.  

When it's refreshed on a new request, the data object will contain our foo variable, 
`request.session.getMyMixin().get('foo')`.

